Loose ends from coding
----------------------

 - Fixes inspired by actually importing all my mail:
    + RFC2047 words may contain high-half characters; some MUAs
      apparently use QP-in-RFC2047 without actually bothering to QP
      anything, simply to indicate which charset it should be
      interpreted in.
    + RFC2047 words may appear in double quotes. I _think_ RFC2047
      is fairly explicit that they may not, but actual mail in the
      wild appears unaware of this and I think the course of wisdom
      is to parse them anyway.
    + RFC2047 words may begin partway through a word :-( This is an
      unfortunate consequence of mailing list managers' tendency to
      put goop on the front of a Subject line. Again I believe it is
      contrary to RFC2047, but there's little choice when it's
      commonly seen in the wild.
    + We apparently don't correctly handle a lack of whitespace
      after a header's initial colon.
    + Can we do _anything_ about default_charset? It's fine as far
      as it goes, but (much as I had feared) it doesn't go far
      enough in all cases. If the primary MIME part is multipart,
      then default_charset needs to be taken from the first
      _subsidiary_ one. Arrgh.

Functions required of the back end
----------------------------------

 - Import a message into Timber's storage system. (This is an
   internal function, but must also be available at an external
   interface, probably as a command-line thing rather than one
   invoked from a front end.)
    + Must analyse the message to determine categories.
    + Store the message in the storage back end (bunch of mboxes,
      IMAP, something more exotic, doesn't matter what).
    + Add the message to the various db indexes.

 - Fetch incoming mail.
    + Read /var/spool/mail, or POP3, or IMAP, or something more
      exotic, and then run the import function on each mail that
      comes back.
    + NB this must be intimately linked to the import function: if
      we're importing a message given on the command line then we
      must somehow _upload_ it to the IMAP server, but if we're
      importing a message received in incoming mail then it's
      _already_ on the server and we only want to move it. (And
      download it, of course, to see how it should be categorised.)

 - Send a message, given the message on stdin.
    + Interpret `Queue' pseudo-header by scheduling an at job which
      re-runs Timber at a later date. (This hopefully means we can
      Fcc it _now_ but marked as not sent yet, and mark it sent when
      we actually do. If I'm _really_ lucky we can view it in a
      category of `queued messages', and reschedule it if we get to
      it before it goes out, although that's a bit advanced and
      involves either tinkering with existing at-jobs or Timber
      having its own cron job.)
    + Deal with `Attach' and `Categories' pseudo-headers.
    + Invent Message-ID and Date.
    + Store in database.

 - Generate a message-index.
    + Jed-specific: the format of the index buffer is tailored to
      Jed's syntax highlighting capability. DESIGN ISSUE: how to put
      a hidden message identifier near each visible index line?
    + Requires a folder designation as a parameter. SPEC ISSUE: what
      folder designations exist?
    + Optionally also specify a numeric range; by default I think we
      list the last (say) five hundred messages in a given category,
      but there should be some sort of `back' button that allows the
      user to look further into the past.

 - Retrieve an actual message.
    + Given a message identifier as input.
    + Both Jed-specific and not Jed-specific: we want to be able to
      fetch the message in a Jed-highlighting-friendly format, but
      _also_ we want a command-line function which retrieves the
      transport format.
    + In the Jed-specific format, there should be a magic MIME line
      identifying each separate MIME part, containing enough
      information to pass back to the back end and have it extract
      the attachment separately.
    + In the Jed-specific format, we optionally provide full
      headers. (Actually, perhaps there should be an option to
      _only_ provide full headers, so that if we hit `h' on a long
      message which is already displayed, we can _just_ replace the
      header section.)
    + In the Jed-specific format, perhaps there should be some
      Timber admin information alongside the actual message.
      (Perhaps above the header section, with a different prefix
      character causing a different line colour.) The most important
      one that springs to mind is a list of what categories that
      mail is in.

 - Retrieve a MIME attachment.
    + In non-transfer-encoded form, to be saved to a file or thrown
      into an external viewer.
    + In some sort of Jed-specific display form, to be shoved into a
      message buffer after a magic MIME line. DESIGN ISSUE: what
      display forms exist?

 - Destroy a MIME attachment.
    + Big and scary. This involves editing the message store.
       * So if we edit an mbox file, we must also adjust the db so
	 that the file offsets of all messages in it are corrected.
    + QUESTION: Can we even _do_ this in all message stores? Can we
      bugger about with message content in IMAP, for example? This
      might have to return `operation not available' in some
      situations.

 - Delete a message.
    + Again involves editing message store, although this operation
      ought to be available in all of them.
       * For mbox, involves adjusting the db again. Might not for
	 IMAP.

 - Construct a composer buffer, optionally in reply to a given
   message (and with some quoted text passed on stdin), optionally
   with a forwarded message attached.
    + Jed-specific: part of the output should be an indication of
      where the cursor wants to be left.
    + DESIGN ISSUE: perhaps Attach-Message rather than
      Attach-Enclosed for forwarding?
    + Point of interest from RFC2822: when constructing a reply
      buffer we SHOULD add a References header as well as
      In-Reply-To, and it should be constructed in a newslike manner
      (i.e. by appending the parent message-ID to the parent's own
      References field).

Unresolved specification issues:

 - What folder designations exist? How does the front end specify a
   subset of the messages in the db to generate an index for?
    + Obviously, any explicitly set up category.
    + Automatic ones based on To and From addresses?
    + Status-based ones such as unresolved, unread, unreplied?
    + What's the actual syntax of each of these?

 - Exactly how _do_ we translate explicit category specifications
   into categories when importing a message? I find myself sorely
   tempted to embed Python and allow the user to write a script
   which analyses the message and automatically assigns categories.
    + this is bad design practice, but I'll just go through my
      current folder names and think about what it would take to
      automatically maintain them as categories.

 - Do we have the ability to store multiple copies of the same
   Message-ID in our mail database?
    + NO. If I send a message, Fcc it as I send, and later get it
      back via the mailing list I sent it to, I want to keep both
      copies. It's probably sensible for the mail system to choose
      one to display (and I think it should be the later/larger one
      so I can check from memory that the mailing list didn't
      rewrite it), but it should put up a notice when displaying the
      message `Other versions of this message are available'.

Unresolved design issues:

 - How to format a Jed message index buffer? The visible part should
   be as similar to Timber 0 as possible (plus threading), but we
   also need to hide a message ID beside each index line.
    + we could use hidden lines after all, and alternate them with
      real index lines? Unlike Timber 0, there will never be a
      genuine need to manually turn a buffer RW and fiddle with it,
      so the possibility of user buffer corruption can be ignored.
    + but really I'd like to avoid the `...' at the end of every
      index line. I'm quite tempted to try something trickier, such
      as having a buffer-local variable which is an array of message
      IDs. This also has the advantage that line numbers in the
      index buffer roughly match message counts.
       * having actually tested this, storing an array in a blocal
	 var does seem to work. Not sure how you'd handle it in Jed
	 .98.* in which you have to specify the type of a blocal on
	 creation, but I think I can probably disregard Jed .98
	 these days if I have to.
       * OK, I think this will do as a decision for the moment.

 - In what formats will the back end deliver a MIME attachment to
   the front end?
    + Transport form.
    + Un-transfer-encoded but otherwise uninterpreted, for saving to
      a file.
    + Un-transfer-encoded and translated to a supplied charset, for
      default viewing within front end.
    + Somehow interpreted for ease of viewing. (Wrap text/plain,
      de-HTML HTML, etc.)

 - How to forward a message?
    + `Attach-Enclosed' has always worked well enough, but I wonder
      if `Attach-Message' might be an interesting option, containing
      a message ID which the Timber send function can retrieve from
      the database to form the attachment. Bit like `Attach:' only
      the data isn't in an ordinary file.

Unanswered factual questions:

 - Can we implement `destroy attachment' in all message store back
   ends? If all our mail is on an IMAP server, can we fiddle with
   the content of a specific message?
    + IMAP is RFC 3501, apparently.
    + The IMAP APPEND command allows literal message data to be
      appended to a mailbox, but only in IMAP 4 (RFC 1730) onwards.
    + So presumably we could APPEND to create a new form of the
      message, DELETE the old one, and adjust the database. Icky
      (particularly in the locking dimension), but just about
      workable.
       * Actually the only locking problem is the one where we
	 delete the original message. Up to that point it's easy
	 enough: we APPEND the new message, adjust the db for that
	 message only, and now the db reflects the modified message
	 store state.

Notes on front end implementation
---------------------------------

 - Tracking number of open Timber buffers.
    + This is far less important than it used to be: we can always
      safely exit a Jed with a Timber running in it (well, unless a
      composer buffer is unsaved, but that's a job for ordinary
      `unsaved data' warnings rather than Timber buffer-counting).
      It's basically only there so that timber_only can exit Jed.
    + Then perhaps the right thing is to not bother _counting_, and
      simply go through the list of active buffers! I'm sure we can
      invent a buffer-local variable tagging any Timber buffer.

 - timber_unfold(): unfold (make visible) a message.
    + I think in Timber 2 we should abandon the folded-buffer
      architecture; it only slows Jed down. Instead, hitting Return
      on a message index line should cause the retrieval of that
      message in a separate buffer. Most of the standard Timber keys
      need to keep working: hitting Del or Q or suchlike in that
      buffer should return to the index buffer, hitting N and P move
      to adjacent messages in the index we came from, etc; but it is
      a separate buffer.
    + This function also unfolds a MIME attachment in an existing
      message.
       * I suppose we can really `unfold' that if we want to.

 - timber_selattach(): select the whole of an attachment (used for
   selecting text to reply to).
    + This is a Jed front-end operation only. We search upwards
      until we find a MIME attachment separator line; if we hit BOB
      without finding one, we search downwards for the end of
      headers and then see if there's a MIME line immediately below
      that, and if so we sit just below it, and if not we just sit
      at the top of the message body. Then we search downwards for a
      MIME separator or EOB, and we're done.

 - timber_fold(): when DEL is pressed, we either fold up a MIME
   attachment, or `fold' the whole message and return to the index
   buffer.
    + Either of these is a Jed front-end operation only: delete
      everything between MIME lines in a message buffer, or destroy
      a message buffer utterly.

 - timber_mimedec() and timber_mimerev(): decode and revert a MIME
   part.
    * FIXME: need to decide what to do about this. My current
      feeling is that MIME parts should be automatically decoded by
      default, and reverted to the transport form only on demand.
      This at _least_ applies to Content-Transfer-Encodings (base64
      and QP) and conversion from loony charsets; perhaps it doesn't
      actually apply to HTML and auto-wrapping plain text.
